---
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary of Terms
---
# Glossary of Terms

**Account**: Represents a cloud account, such as an AWS Account, Azure Subscription, or GCP Project, within Turbot Guardrails. Accounts are tracked as resources and can have policies applied to cloud accounts.

**Actions**: Runnable processes in Turbot Guardrails that can be executed by a Control or another Action. Actions are triggered based on policy settings and resource states. The list of available actions is continually updated based on customer feedback, allowing for the addition of new actions over time.

**Alerts**: Automated messages generated by Turbot Guardrails when a policy violation or significant event occurs. These alerts appear in the Guardrails console. They can also be configured to notify users via email, Slack, Microsoft Teams, or HTTP endpoints.

**Calculated Policy**: Makes policy settings contextually aware by sourcing CMDB data, using an GraphQL query, and transforming it with a Nunjucks template that outputs a resource-specific policy value. Any policy setting can be a calculated policy.

**Categories**: Organizational groupings of policies in Turbot Guardrails based on their purpose and scope. Examples include Permissions, Compliance, Security, and Operations.

**CMDB**: The Configuration Management Database (CMDB) in Turbot Guardrails stores detailed information about resources and their configurations. It serves as the primary data source for calculated policies, enabling dynamic and context-aware policy settings. Controls can be in various states, such as OK, Alarm, Error, Invalid, Skipped, or To Be Determined (TBD). They are categorized into control types and control categories for better organization and reporting.

**Control**: An executable that evaluates assertions made by policy values for a given resource. If differences are found, it can take actions as dictated by those policy values. May depend on one or more policy values to fully define behaviour. Controls are specific to resource types.

**Control Objective**: A business need that requires specific configurations or policies to be enforced across cloud resources. It represents a high-level goal that ensures compliance, security, and operational efficiency within an organization's cloud environment. For example, the organization may have a requirement that all cloud storage must be encrypted at rest, or virtual networks must never be accessible to the public. Often these control objectives are written in non-executable Word docs or wikis. Policy Packs can be used to streamline the implementation of control objectives.

**Control State**: A control state in Turbot Guardrails represents the current status of a control after it has evaluated a resource against its associated policies. Control states help administrators understand the compliance and operational status of their cloud resources. The possible control states are:

- **OK**: The resource is compliant with the policy settings. This is the desired state.

- **Alarm**: The resource is non-compliant, and administrative review or action is required.

- **Error**: The control encountered an issue, such as insufficient permissions, preventing it from enforcing the policy.

- **Invalid**: The control cannot evaluate the resource due to misconfigured or missing policies.

- **Skipped**: The resource is intentionally not evaluated by the control.

- **TBD (to be determined)**: The control is waiting for policy calculations to complete. Controls start in this state.

**Control Type**: A blueprint for a specific control in Turbot Guardrails that can be configured for resources. Control Types are associated with policy types and are used to enforce specific policies on cloud resources. They are organized hierarchically and categorized into control categories for better organization and reporting.  Examples include `AWS > S3 > Bucket > Approved` and `GCP > Compute > Disk > Encryption at Rest`.

**Directive**: A specific instruction within a policy setting that dictates how a control should evaluate and optionally act on resources. Examples include `skip`, `check`, and `enforce`.

**Grant**: A permission assignment that enables a user or group to perform specific actions on a Guardrails resource. Grants define the level of access (e.g., read-only, operator, admin) and can be scoped to various resource levels such as accounts, folders, or individual resources. Grants can be configured to be active immediately or require activation by the user.

**Grant Activation**: Permissions in Guardrails can be granted but not active. This allows a user to elevate their privileges for a limited time as needed. Functions similarly to the Linux ‘sudo’ command.

**Event Handler**: The collection of infrastructure deployed into a cloud account to gather events as they occur and forward them to Turbot Guardrails for processing. Event Handlers use a push-based mechanism for real-time event processing. For ease of configuration, Polling can be used as an alternative to Event Handlers.

**Exception**: A mechanism to override a required setting on a resource at a lower level in the policy hierarchy. Exceptions can be implemented using static or calculated policy settings.

**Folder**: A logical grouping of resources within Turbot Guardrails. Folders help organize resources and can have policies attached to them that are inherited by the resources within the folder.

**GraphQL**: The native query language for the Turbot Guardrails API.

**GraphQL API**: The API provided by Turbot Guardrails that allows users to perform actions programmatically using GraphQL queries and mutations.

**Guardrail**: A policy-driven control mechanism that ensures resources within cloud environments adhere to organizational standards and compliance requirements. Guardrails automate the enforcement of best practices, security policies, and operational guidelines across various cloud services. The key components of a guardrail are controls and policy settings.

**Guardrails Console**: The user interface (UI) of Turbot Guardrails where users can perform actions such as setting policies, managing resources, and viewing alerts. The console is the visible representation of a Guardrails Workspace.

**Guardrails Hub**: The central repository for mods and policy packs.

**Hierarchy**: The structured arrangement of resources, folders, and policies within a workspace. It includes:

- **Resource Hierarchy**: Organizes resources into a multi-level structure with Turbot Root at the top, followed by folders and individual resources.

- **Policy Hierarchy**: Policies set at higher levels are inherited by lower levels, ensuring consistent enforcement. This hierarchical structure enables efficient management, reporting, and policy enforcement across different organizational levels.

**Mod**: A package of all the resource, policy and control types related to a single cloud platform service. Installing the mod for a cloud service installs all controls and starts the discovery process for all resource types described in the mod.

**Modes**: Operational states in Turbot Guardrails that dictate how policies are enforced. Examples include None, Policy-Only Mode, Role Mode, and User Mode.

**Notifications**: The delivery mechanism for alerts and other important messages to users or systems outside the Guardrails console. Notifications can be sent via various channels such as email, Slack, Microsoft Teams, or HTTP endpoints.

**Permissions**: In Turbot Guardrails, permissions define the actions that users or groups can perform on resources. Permissions are managed through policies and can be granted at various levels, such as account, folder, or resource. Permissions ensure that users have the appropriate access to perform their roles while maintaining security and compliance. Note that permissions in connected systems (e.g., AWS) are governed by mechanisms such as cross-role trust and IAM policies.

**Permission levels**: In Turbot Guardrails, levels refer to predefined sets of permissions that can be assigned to users or groups. Each level encompasses a specific scope of actions, ranging from read-only access to full administrative control. Common levels include:

- **Metadata**: Read-only access to metadata properties.

- **ReadOnly**: Read-only access to data within resources.

- **Operator**: Ability to perform medium to low-risk changes.

- **Admin**: Ability to perform high to medium-risk changes.

- **Owner**: Full control, including managing permissions and making high-risk changes.

- **SuperUser**: Unlimited access to all services, bypassing preventative controls.

**Polling**: A pull-based mechanism. In polling mode, Turbot Guardrails periodically queries the cloud provider's event logs to retrieve the latest events. Polling is easier to set up than Event Handlers, but is slower and entails higher API usage.

**Policy Pack**: A group of related policies that can attach to resources in the hierarchy. Discoverable in the Guardrails Hub, installable via Terraform.

**Policy Setting**: An assertion about desired state or behavior. Policy settings dictate the behavior of Guardrails controls. A Policy Setting is an instance of a Policy Pypes. A Policy Settings is created and managed by a person (versus a Policy Value which is created and managed by Guardrails). The three kinds of Actions dictated by a Policy Setting are:

- **Skip**: A directive used in policies to indicate that a particular control should not be evaluated for a resource and no action taken. When a policy is set to `skip` it instructs Turbot Guardrails to essentially ignore the control for that resource.

- **Check**: A directive used to evaluate a resource against a specific condition without enforcing any changes. Example values include `Check: Enabled` or `Check: Disabled`.

- **Enforce**: A directive used to ensure that a resource complies with a specified condition. Example values include `Enforce: Enabled` or `Enforce: Disabled`.

**Policy Type**: Defines values that can be used to dictate the behavior of a control. Each Policy Type is specific to a Resource Type and Control Type.

**Policy Value**: The effective policy setting for a given resource. The value of a Policy Value is dictated by a Policy Setting somewhere in the resource hierarchy above the resource. A Policy Value is created and managed automatically by Guardrails (versus a Policy Setting which is created and managed by a person.)

**Policy Taxonomy**: The structured classification of policies within Turbot Guardrails. It organizes policies into categories and hierarchies, making it easier to manage and apply them across various resources. The taxonomy includes different types of policies such as Simple, Compound, and Calculated, each serving specific purposes. Policies are grouped by resource types and control objectives, ensuring consistent enforcement and reporting.

- **Simple Policy**: Used when a single policy setting is sufficient to define a control's behavior.

- **Compound Policy**: Used when two or more policy settings are required to fully define a control's behavior. Common examples are the `Approved` and `Active` policy settings.

- **Calculated Policy**: See Calculated Policy above.

**Quick Actions**: A feature in Turbot Guardrails that allows users to initiate specific, one-time control enforcements directly from the Guardrails UI.

**Remediation**: The process of automatically correcting or enforcing the desired state of a resource based on policy settings.

**Resource**: Represents cloud platform objects that are tracked by the Guardrails CMDB. A Resource is a specific instance of a Resource Type. May have many policy values and controls associated with it.

**Resource Type**: A specific type of resource, such as `AWS > S3 > Bucket`.

**Resource Category**: A vendor-agnostic categorization of Resource Types.

**Template**: Templates in Turbot Guardrails are primarily written in Jinja2/Nunjucks for calculated policies and notifications, allowing for complex logic and data manipulation. Other types of templates include Terraform templates for infrastructure as code and JSON/YAML templates for configurations.

**Turbot**: Acts as a singleton root resource in a Guardrails Workspace for the Resource and Policy hierarchies. Policy settings made here will apply to the entire resource hierarchy. Commonly referred to as the "Turbot Level" of a workspace.

**Valid Values**: Each policy type in Turbot Guardrails has a specific set of valid values that define the possible actions or states for that policy. These values determine how the policy is applied and enforced on the targeted resources. Valid values are defined through the policy's JSON schema and can include directives such as `Skip`, `Check`, and `Enforce`.

**Workspace**: A Guardrails workspace is an independent tenant within Turbot Guardrails, providing a dedicated environment for managing Guardrails permissions, resources, policies, and controls. Each workspace has its own schema, and Turbot root, ensuring isolation and customization. Workspaces are typically used to separate different environments, such as development, QA, and production.


